README.md, before:

# 🤖 VYOM – Virtual Yet Omnipotent Machine

<div align="center">

<img src="./Frontend/Graphics/vyom.jpeg" alt="VYOM Banner" width="400" height="160">

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13+-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://python.org)
[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![Contributions Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/th-shivam/vyom?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/stargazers)

**🚀 A Futuristic AI-Powered Personal Assistant Inspired by J.A.R.V.I.S.**

*Designed to simplify your digital life through advanced language models and intelligent automation*


</div>

---

## 🎯 What is VYOM?

**VYOM (Virtual Yet Omnipotent Machine)** is a cutting-edge AI assistant that brings the future of personal computing to your desktop today.

<div align="center">

🎭 **Inspired by J.A.R.V.I.S.** from Iron Man, VYOM combines:
- 🧠 Advanced AI reasoning
- 🎤 Natural voice interaction  
- ⚡ Lightning-fast execution
- 🎯 Intelligent task automation

Transform simple voice commands into complex digital tasks with unprecedented ease and efficiency.

</div>

### 💻 How it Works

```python
# Just say it, VYOM does it!
"VYOM, write me a professional email to schedule a meeting"

"VYOM, help me draft a professional email"

"VYOM, generate content for my presentation"

# That's it! No complex commands needed.
```

---

## 🌟 Features

<div align="center">

### Core Capabilities



| Feature | Description | Status |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| 🎤 **Voice Commands** | Natural language voice interaction - just speak your needs | ✅ **Active** |
| ✍️ **AI Content Generation** | Smart writing for emails, applications, documents & more | ✅ **Active** |
| 🧠 **Context Understanding** | Intelligent decision-making based on conversation context | ✅ **Active** |
| ⚡ **Multi-threaded Performance** | Lightning-fast execution without blocking or lag | ✅ **Active** |
| 🧹 **Modular Architecture** | Easy to extend with custom abilities and actions | ✅ **Active** |

</div>

<div align="center">

### 🎯 Use Cases

**Personal Productivity** • **Content Creation** • **Task Management** • **Research Assistance**

</div>

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

<div align="center">

| Category | Technologies |
|----------|-------------|
| **🐍 Core Language** | ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13+-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |
| **🤖 AI Models** | ![Groq](https://img.shields.io/badge/Groq-FF6B35?style=flat-square&logo=ai&logoColor=white) ![Cohere](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cohere-39A0ED?style=flat-square&logo=ai&logoColor=white) |
| **⚡ Performance** | ![Asyncio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Asyncio-4B8BBE?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) ![Threading](https://img.shields.io/badge/Threading-FF9500?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |
| **🧠 NLP** | ![Custom Pipeline](https://img.shields.io/badge/Custom_NLP-8A2BE2?style=flat-square&logo=brain&logoColor=white) |

</div>

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

Get VYOM running in under 5 minutes!

```bash
# One-liner installation (recommended)
git clone https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom.git && cd vyom && python -m venv .venv && .venv\Scripts\activate && pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then add your API keys and run:
```bash
python main.py
```

---

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites

<div align="center">

![Python 3.13+](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13+-blue)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-Latest-orange?style=flat-square)
![API Keys](https://img.shields.io/badge/API_Keys-Required-yellow?style=flat-square)

</div>

### Step-by-Step Installation

<details>
<summary><b>📦 Method 1: Standard Installation</b></summary>

#### 1️⃣ Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom.git
cd vyom
```

#### 2️⃣ Create Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv

# Activate environment
.venv\Scripts\activate     # Windows
source .venv/bin/activate  # Mac/Linux
```

#### 3️⃣ Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### 4️⃣ Environment Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```bash
# Copy template
cp .env.example .env
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>🚀 Method 2: Quick Setup Script</b></summary>

```bash
# Run our automated setup script
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/th-shivam/vyom/main/setup.sh | bash
```

</details>

### 🔑 API Configuration

Add your API keys to the `.env` file:

```env
# Required API Keys
GroqAPIKey=your_groq_key_here
CohereAPIKey=your_cohere_key_here
HuggingFaceAPIKey=your_hf_key_here

# Personal Configuration
Username=your_name_here
AssistantName=VYOM
InputLanguage=en
AssistantVoice=en-CA-LiamNeural
```

> 🔐 **Security Note:** Never commit your `.env` file to version control!

### 🎉 Launch VYOM

```bash
python main.py
```

<div align="center">

**🎊 Congratulations! VYOM is now ready to assist you.**

</div>

---

## 🎮 Usage Examples

### Voice Commands
```
"VYOM, write me a leave application for tomorrow"
"VYOM, help me draft a professional email"  
"VYOM, generate content for my presentation"
"VYOM, create a summary of this topic"
```

### Text Interface
```python
# Direct text input also supported
input: "Generate a professional email for client follow-up"
output: "I'll create a professional follow-up email for you..."
```

---

## 🔮 Roadmap & Future Features

<div align="center">

### 🚧 Coming Soon



| Feature | Priority | Status | ETA |
|---------|----------|--------|-----|
| 🎨 **GUI Interface** (Tkinter/PyQt) | High | 🔄 In Progress | Q2 2025 |
| 📱 **Mobile Companion App** | High | 📋 Planned | Q3 2025 |
| 🌐 **Web Automation** (Playwright) | High | 📋 Planned | Q2 2025 |
| 🕵️ **Stealth Mode** | Medium | 📋 Planned | Q3 2025 |
| 🕐 **Smart Scheduler & Reminders** | Medium | 📋 Planned | Q2 2025 |
| 📩 **WhatsApp/Telegram Integration** | Medium | 📋 Planned | Q3 2025 |
| 🧯 **Offline Mode** (Local AI) | High | 🔄 Research | Q4 2025 |
| 🔗 **API Endpoints** | Low | 📋 Planned | Q4 2025 |

<details>
<summary><b>🎯 Long-term Vision</b></summary>

- 🏠 **Smart Home Integration** - Control IoT devices
- 🚗 **Automotive Integration** - In-car assistant capabilities  
- 🎓 **Educational Features** - Personalized learning assistance
- 💼 **Business Suite** - Enterprise-grade features
- 🌍 **Multi-language Support** - Global accessibility

</details>
</div>
---

## 🤝 Contributing

We ❤️ contributions! VYOM is a community-driven project.

<div align="center">

[![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=th-shivam/vyom)](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/graphs/contributors)

</div>

### Quick Contribution Guide

1. 🍴 **Fork** the repository
2. 🌿 **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b amazing-feature`)
3. 💻 **Code** your enhancement
4. ✅ **Test** thoroughly  
5. 📝 **Commit** with clear messages
6. 🚀 **Push** to your branch
7. 🔄 **Open** a Pull Request

**[📋 Full Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** • **[🐛 Report Issues](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/issues)** • **[💡 Request Features](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)**



## 🏆 Achievements & Recognition

<div align="center">

![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/th-shivam/vyom?style=social)
![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/th-shivam/vyom?style=social)
![GitHub Watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/th-shivam/vyom?style=social)

**Featured in:** 
- 🌟 Awesome Python Projects
- 🤖 AI Assistant Showcase  
- 🚀 Emerging Tech Spotlight

</div>

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

Special thanks to the amazing open-source community:

<div align="center">

| Organization | Contribution |
|-------------|-------------|
| **🔥 [Groq](https://groq.com/)** | Lightning-fast LLM inference |
| **🤗 [Cohere](https://cohere.com/)** | Advanced language understanding |
| **🤗 [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/)** | ML model ecosystem |
| **🐍 [Python Community](https://python.org/)** | Amazing language and libraries |

</div>

### 👨‍💻 Special Mentions
- All our amazing **contributors** and **beta testers**
- The **AI/ML community** for inspiration and guidance
- **Open source mentors** who guided this project

---

## 📄 License

<div align="center">

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**📜 TL;DR:** Free to use, modify, and distribute. No strings attached!

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

</div>

---

## 📞 Support & Contact

<div align="center">

**Need Help?** We're here for you!

[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Issues-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/issues)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Community-7289DA?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/vyom)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-Support-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail)](mailto:support@vyom.dev)

</div>

### Response Times
- 🐛 **Bug Reports:** < 24 hours
- ✨ **Feature Requests:** < 48 hours  
- ❓ **General Questions:** < 12 hours

---

<div align="center">

## 🌟 Show Your Support

**If VYOM has helped you, please consider:**

⭐ **Star this repository**  
🍴 **Fork and contribute**  
📢 **Share with friends**  

---

### 💫 Made with ❤️ by [Shivam Singh](https://github.com/th-shivam)

> *"VYOM – Not just virtual, truly yours."*

**🚀 Join the future of AI-powered assistance today!**

</div>

---

<div align="center">
<sub><strong>VYOM v2.0</strong> • Built with 🐍 Python • Powered by 🤖 AI • Made for 🌍 Everyone</sub>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: add download link for main.exe

README.md, after:

# 🤖 VYOM – Virtual Yet Omnipotent Machine

<div align="center">

<img src="./Frontend/Graphics/vyom.jpeg" alt="VYOM Banner" width="400" height="160">

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13+-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://python.org)
[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![Contributions Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/th-shivam/vyom?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/stargazers)

**🚀 A Futuristic AI-Powered Personal Assistant Inspired by J.A.R.V.I.S.**

*Designed to simplify your digital life through advanced language models and intelligent automation*


</div>

---

## 🎯 What is VYOM?

**VYOM (Virtual Yet Omnipotent Machine)** is a cutting-edge AI assistant that brings the future of personal computing to your desktop today.

<div align="center">

🎭 **Inspired by J.A.R.V.I.S.** from Iron Man, VYOM combines:
- 🧠 Advanced AI reasoning
- 🎤 Natural voice interaction  
- ⚡ Lightning-fast execution
- 🎯 Intelligent task automation

Transform simple voice commands into complex digital tasks with unprecedented ease and efficiency.
#### 📥 **Download & Run Instantly**  
No setup required! You can directly download the pre-built executable :  

➡️ [Download `main.exe`](https://github.com/PavithraNelluri/VYOM/releases/download/v1.0.0/main.exe)

Just click the file, and VYOM will start running on your system.

</div>

### 💻 How it Works

```python
# Just say it, VYOM does it!
"VYOM, write me a professional email to schedule a meeting"

"VYOM, help me draft a professional email"

"VYOM, generate content for my presentation"

# That's it! No complex commands needed.
```

---

## 🌟 Features

<div align="center">

### Core Capabilities



| Feature | Description | Status |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| 🎤 **Voice Commands** | Natural language voice interaction - just speak your needs | ✅ **Active** |
| ✍️ **AI Content Generation** | Smart writing for emails, applications, documents & more | ✅ **Active** |
| 🧠 **Context Understanding** | Intelligent decision-making based on conversation context | ✅ **Active** |
| ⚡ **Multi-threaded Performance** | Lightning-fast execution without blocking or lag | ✅ **Active** |
| 🧹 **Modular Architecture** | Easy to extend with custom abilities and actions | ✅ **Active** |

</div>

<div align="center">

### 🎯 Use Cases

**Personal Productivity** • **Content Creation** • **Task Management** • **Research Assistance**

</div>

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

<div align="center">

| Category | Technologies |
|----------|-------------|
| **🐍 Core Language** | ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13+-3776AB?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |
| **🤖 AI Models** | ![Groq](https://img.shields.io/badge/Groq-FF6B35?style=flat-square&logo=ai&logoColor=white) ![Cohere](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cohere-39A0ED?style=flat-square&logo=ai&logoColor=white) |
| **⚡ Performance** | ![Asyncio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Asyncio-4B8BBE?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) ![Threading](https://img.shields.io/badge/Threading-FF9500?style=flat-square&logo=python&logoColor=white) |
| **🧠 NLP** | ![Custom Pipeline](https://img.shields.io/badge/Custom_NLP-8A2BE2?style=flat-square&logo=brain&logoColor=white) |

</div>

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

Get VYOM running in under 5 minutes!

```bash
# One-liner installation (recommended)
git clone https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom.git && cd vyom && python -m venv .venv && .venv\Scripts\activate && pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then add your API keys and run:
```bash
python main.py
```

---

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites

<div align="center">

![Python 3.13+](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.13+-blue)
![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-Latest-orange?style=flat-square)
![API Keys](https://img.shields.io/badge/API_Keys-Required-yellow?style=flat-square)

</div>

### Step-by-Step Installation

<details>
<summary><b>📦 Method 1: Standard Installation</b></summary>

#### 1️⃣ Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom.git
cd vyom
```

#### 2️⃣ Create Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv

# Activate environment
.venv\Scripts\activate     # Windows
source .venv/bin/activate  # Mac/Linux
```

#### 3️⃣ Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### 4️⃣ Environment Configuration
Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```bash
# Copy template
cp .env.example .env
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>🚀 Method 2: Quick Setup Script</b></summary>

```bash
# Run our automated setup script
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/th-shivam/vyom/main/setup.sh | bash
```

</details>

### 🔑 API Configuration

Add your API keys to the `.env` file:

```env
# Required API Keys
GroqAPIKey=your_groq_key_here
CohereAPIKey=your_cohere_key_here
HuggingFaceAPIKey=your_hf_key_here

# Personal Configuration
Username=your_name_here
AssistantName=VYOM
InputLanguage=en
AssistantVoice=en-CA-LiamNeural
```

> 🔐 **Security Note:** Never commit your `.env` file to version control!

### 🎉 Launch VYOM

```bash
python main.py
```

<div align="center">

**🎊 Congratulations! VYOM is now ready to assist you.**

</div>

---

## 🎮 Usage Examples

### Voice Commands
```
"VYOM, write me a leave application for tomorrow"
"VYOM, help me draft a professional email"  
"VYOM, generate content for my presentation"
"VYOM, create a summary of this topic"
```

### Text Interface
```python
# Direct text input also supported
input: "Generate a professional email for client follow-up"
output: "I'll create a professional follow-up email for you..."
```

---

## 🔮 Roadmap & Future Features

<div align="center">

### 🚧 Coming Soon



| Feature | Priority | Status | ETA |
|---------|----------|--------|-----|
| 🎨 **GUI Interface** (Tkinter/PyQt) | High | 🔄 In Progress | Q2 2025 |
| 📱 **Mobile Companion App** | High | 📋 Planned | Q3 2025 |
| 🌐 **Web Automation** (Playwright) | High | 📋 Planned | Q2 2025 |
| 🕵️ **Stealth Mode** | Medium | 📋 Planned | Q3 2025 |
| 🕐 **Smart Scheduler & Reminders** | Medium | 📋 Planned | Q2 2025 |
| 📩 **WhatsApp/Telegram Integration** | Medium | 📋 Planned | Q3 2025 |
| 🧯 **Offline Mode** (Local AI) | High | 🔄 Research | Q4 2025 |
| 🔗 **API Endpoints** | Low | 📋 Planned | Q4 2025 |

<details>
<summary><b>🎯 Long-term Vision</b></summary>

- 🏠 **Smart Home Integration** - Control IoT devices
- 🚗 **Automotive Integration** - In-car assistant capabilities  
- 🎓 **Educational Features** - Personalized learning assistance
- 💼 **Business Suite** - Enterprise-grade features
- 🌍 **Multi-language Support** - Global accessibility

</details>
</div>
---

## 🤝 Contributing

We ❤️ contributions! VYOM is a community-driven project.

<div align="center">

[![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=th-shivam/vyom)](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/graphs/contributors)

</div>

### Quick Contribution Guide

1. 🍴 **Fork** the repository
2. 🌿 **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b amazing-feature`)
3. 💻 **Code** your enhancement
4. ✅ **Test** thoroughly  
5. 📝 **Commit** with clear messages
6. 🚀 **Push** to your branch
7. 🔄 **Open** a Pull Request

**[📋 Full Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** • **[🐛 Report Issues](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/issues)** • **[💡 Request Features](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)**



## 🏆 Achievements & Recognition

<div align="center">

![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/th-shivam/vyom?style=social)
![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/th-shivam/vyom?style=social)
![GitHub Watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/th-shivam/vyom?style=social)

**Featured in:** 
- 🌟 Awesome Python Projects
- 🤖 AI Assistant Showcase  
- 🚀 Emerging Tech Spotlight

</div>

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

Special thanks to the amazing open-source community:

<div align="center">

| Organization | Contribution |
|-------------|-------------|
| **🔥 [Groq](https://groq.com/)** | Lightning-fast LLM inference |
| **🤗 [Cohere](https://cohere.com/)** | Advanced language understanding |
| **🤗 [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/)** | ML model ecosystem |
| **🐍 [Python Community](https://python.org/)** | Amazing language and libraries |

</div>

### 👨‍💻 Special Mentions
- All our amazing **contributors** and **beta testers**
- The **AI/ML community** for inspiration and guidance
- **Open source mentors** who guided this project

---

## 📄 License

<div align="center">

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**📜 TL;DR:** Free to use, modify, and distribute. No strings attached!

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

</div>

---

## 📞 Support & Contact

<div align="center">

**Need Help?** We're here for you!

[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-Issues-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/th-shivam/vyom/issues)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Community-7289DA?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/vyom)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-Support-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail)](mailto:support@vyom.dev)

</div>

### Response Times
- 🐛 **Bug Reports:** < 24 hours
- ✨ **Feature Requests:** < 48 hours  
- ❓ **General Questions:** < 12 hours

---

<div align="center">

## 🌟 Show Your Support

**If VYOM has helped you, please consider:**

⭐ **Star this repository**  
🍴 **Fork and contribute**  
📢 **Share with friends**  

---

### 💫 Made with ❤️ by [Shivam Singh](https://github.com/th-shivam)

> *"VYOM – Not just virtual, truly yours."*

**🚀 Join the future of AI-powered assistance today!**

</div>

---

<div align="center">
<sub><strong>VYOM v2.0</strong> • Built with 🐍 Python • Powered by 🤖 AI • Made for 🌍 Everyone</sub>
</div>
